# kickstarter-analysis
## Excel Data Work
### Finding Data to help maximize our success in doing a fundraiser
### Analysis of Outcomes Based on Launch Date
Based on our data and graphs, we see that canceled fundraisers are steady. It is a straight line basically. So no matter what time of the year it is, canceled fundraisers occurs at a constant rate. The guess would be unforeseen incidences that require someone to stop the fundraiser. However, those can not be planned for. Now if we look at the failed fundraisers, there is a more uneven line on the graph. Still, I wouldn't say any monthas sticks out more than any other month. Lastly, if we check out the successful outcomes, we gain a lot more knowledge. The graph shows a steady result in begining months. After April, the successful outcomes skyrocket until around August. It would appear that would be our best time to set up a fundraiser. After August the successful outcomes are steady. Howver, we have a problem. The gap between succeesful and failed outcomes narrows. Almost to a point where successful and failed are equal. We know with that, that October through December is the worst time. It would almost be a 50/50 chance of either outcome.
### Analysis Based on Goals
As with the graphs before, the canceled results don't vary too much. So we can ignore that. With this one, the failed and succeed results colliude a lot. So we'll check them out together. The successful fundraisers occur more frequently than failed fundraisers when the goal is 149999 or less. Theyre especially high when 4999 or less. SO the lower the goal, the better your chance of success is. WHich makes sense. Howver, we see that a goal of 35000-44999 is successful a lot as well. We should be weary of outliers with those because without that range, the failed outcomes were only increasing. Our best bet is to stay within 15000.
### Challenges and Limitations
The challenges I faced in this was determining x and y axis categories. I noticed myself flipping them around a lot. I eventually get it right. My only real challenge is getting my box and whisker charts to display properly and on Outcomes Based on Goals formulas. The outcome based on goals formulas used countif statements. However, we through in a lot of if and and statements as well. AS well as looking up the previous sheets info. I knew there had to be a way to copy and paste my formulas so I wouldn't have to re-type it for successful, failed, and canceled outcomes. I eventually saw that I could anchor/lock my formulas after typing it once. Then copy it over and just re-type the "failed," "successful," and "Canceled" portion of the criteria within countifs. It was still a litlle confusing in my head but I managed.
I did not see too many limitations with the dataset. I think that there are outliers and we could do a better job of showing them within our visuals.
#### Other charts to use
I feel like we used some good graphs but a few more ***box and whisker*** charts could have kicked it up a notch. In some cases, a ***Pie Chart*** and ***Column Chart*** would have helped out. Pie charts are weird when it comes to graphing things with a lot of data but when we narrow things down into categories, they are useful. They are easy to read and understand for people who aren't as good at reading information. Columns would've been good since we comparing three results to each other. SO having the culumns aligned next to one another might've helped the reader see what was truly the best results and when.
